my partner Kelly and I met during a
volunteer project in our neighborhood
called the better block we inhabited a
bunch of boarded up buildings for a
weekend with a an event permit from the
city because we couldn't get a zoning to
open businesses there so we had a
newsstand we had a cafe we had a
boutique we had the open air art studio
for all ages
we painted bike lanes illegally in the
middle of the night on the streets and
shut down lanes of traffic and took our
like a three lane crazy road down to a
one lane and you know it didn't make
everybody happy but most of the people
that came were really happy we got
neighbors and city council people and
whatnot invited to the event so that
they experienced it and then had them
petitioned for zoning changes which they
won and we were able to stick around and
kind of build the business from nothing
I think we started with $5,000 and
reached out to all the friends and
artists that we knew to get involved and
teach for a little bit of money and and
then it grew the very first space that
we were in when we did the the better
block that one weekend was a warehouse
and the man who had the warehouse he
refurbished furniture and so it was full
of old chandeliers and mirrors and it
was just this really textured layered
space we put picnic tables in there and
brought in tons of donated art supplies
and that was the very first iteration of
oil and cotton the space right next to
that came up for rent
and we decided to make a go of it and we
moved into that space and it was much
like this it was very raw there was you
know exposed brick and tin ceilings and
so it was an easy transition from the
warehouse
to this other raw space we wanted to buy
the building but the neighborhood had
already moved past our ability to buy it
it's one thing led to another and the
spacer and now came up as an option
because they let us inhabit it for a
weekend for a gallery project and we're
like yeah this feels pretty good it
feels like the old place got the ten
ceilings and all the original character
but he was putting in brand new air
conditioning and plumbing and those were
a lot of the things that we needed here
that we couldn't get we realized we
could have more of a retail store and
that could subsidize our programming for
classes and allow us to be a little bit
edgier on the kinds of classes that we
ran because we were kind of slave to
selling classes when we were here cuz
the store didn't really cut it as the
rent went up we're like well we don't
want to sell out and just do always what
sells we want to be able to do the
things that are interesting to us and
the art supply store is sort of our
grant for that Kaylie and I are both
collectors were both sentimental we hold
on to things because they have stories
not because they're always functional
our collection of things and memories
filled that space and when we moved into
the space we literally walked it across
the street piece by piece and brought it
all over here
tables and people can we can get them
printed and as far as background the
rough part of oil and cotton is a
storefront we have art supplies and we
carefully select what we include in the
shop because it is so small first of all
and also because we want to bring the
best art supplies that are affordable to
the customers we serve thank you we have
classes for ages two to adult all the
way from toddlers just getting started
to professional artists workshops a lot
of our adult workshop teachers are
adjunct professors at area colleges so
we have a really great talent pool that
participates in teaching here we got
twelve weeks of summer camps for kids
Monday through Friday 9:00 a.m. to 4:00
p.m. and that is sort of how we stay
alive how we keep the lights on
throughout the year
the world of art it is summer workshops
we've got design your own website we've
got bundled dying natural dye series
like I said oil painting marbling
there's a DIY audio/video hardware
hacking class tomorrow morning where
people are going to be taking apart
synthesizers and such and rebuilding new
instruments
I had a conservation practice here in
Dallas and on the side I was teaching
workshops in my studio that focused on
paper arts book binding and historic
photographic processes I was also
teaching art classes in the Dallas
County Jail I met Kaley during the
better block and we really hit it off I
I didn't realize it at that point really
but I think I was looking for an
opportunity to move out of what I was
doing to be able to work with her
everyday and to figure out things and
challenge ourselves and share learning
experiences it's been really beautiful
all my life I studied music piano and
window performing a visual arts high
school and then in college I actually
went to college for physics and realized
about a year in it was a little too
physical for my mind so I switched back
to music majored in music classical
piano had an injury from over practicing
and switched from playing to writing and
did a master's degree in that at UNT and
Denton so I moved to New York City and
tried to make it as a composer and
quickly realized I needed to teach to
survive so I started teaching piano and
that was such an easy natural thing to
do because I'd been playing since I was
four and it was my second language
basically and I still do that I have
about 45 piano students the teaching
evolved into I started writing art
curriculum because my mother ran a
business of art classes just for kids
and it wasn't making enough money to
support itself so I said well you need a
better structure so I sort of applied
what it was to be a composer just to
write creative instructions for players
on to what it is to write creative
instructions for making art projects for
artists to teach so that was a natural
fit and I created a
like a 12 year curriculum program and
that's what we started this with we had
that structure built in my name is June
Covington and I've been at oil and
cotton from the beginning which is five
almost six years I had been teaching art
full-time in a private school not too
far away and got laid off and a friend
of mine said I should go meet Shannon
and Kaylee at least you know until I
figured out what I was going to do next
and I walked in to the old space and the
way they had things set up in the way it
was arranged felt exactly see here I go
getting emotional just like my own art
room and I was like oh this is great
nice to meet you and ran out the door
before I burst into tears but from the
beginning I started out as volunteer and
then teaching workshops and then I'm
doing summer camps and being here this
is my primary job this face invites
people in his students who possibly who
had given up on art early and especially
adult students the kids too you know
that it's a chance to interact with
people who are here as learners and it
helps us continue to be learners which
is the only way to really be a good
artist is to still be a learner it's
really important that the space be
comfortable and a little messy but not
too messy and we all work really hard to
maintain that level of messiness that's
appealing without it hindering creative
work conversation is the essential way
that all of us and Shannon and Kaylee
are good listeners and good talkers and
good at communicating their ideas and we
start like way up here it's going to be
this a crazy elaborate thing and then
over time we get it down to something
manageable we all have different
experiences and everyone's experiences
even these teenagers who've come to
volunteer and to work have as much to
contribute as the experience and even
Shannon and Kaylee treat everyone's
words with equal value there's no
hierarchy as far as decision-making
though the final decision plans
them so they're pretty amazing
as a piano teacher one thing that I
singled out that makes me different from
a lot of my predecessors as a piano
teacher because if you think about the
structure of that it is you do it right
or else so my method of teaching piano
is I teach them to get out there and
make mistakes and survive so in the
recital I encourage them to try to make
mistakes which then of course they then
don't as much
I don't want anybody to freeze to the
point that they quit and they never play
music again my goal as a teacher is to
get them to survive failing recognize
that every other person in the entire
world is failing and fearing failing
just as much as they are and to make
your contribution you have to take a
risk you have to put yourself out there
hey guys it is Sara I hope you enjoyed
this episode of creative spaces TV if
you did give it a big thumbs up for me
and hit that subscribe button down below
if you have not yet and I do make these
creative spaces TV episodes but I also
vlog and do other things as well so do
not be shy on the youtubes thank you
again so much for watching I will see
you in the next vlog until next time
stay peachy okay bye